Restructuring content between Markdown/Documentation generator pages (#2646)
linkml/linkml: docs/generators/docgen.rst

Documentation
=============

> Overview
> --------
> 
> Being able to automatically generate technical documentation pages for your LinkML schema is an 
> important feature of the LinkML framework. The linkml library is bundled with a generator (invoked 
> using the ``gen-doc`` command) which can be used to automatically create individual Markdown 
> pages for each of the elements (classes, slots, enumerations, etc.) in your schema.
> 
> The documentation pages are an important resource for consumers of the schema because it provides a 
> user-friendly way for users to explore and understand your schema.
> 
> If you use the official `LinkML cookicutter <https://github.com/linkml/linkml-project-cookiecutter/tree/main>`_ 
> to create your schema, it will add a static site generator framework to your environment. There 
> are many static site generator frameworks available, but the one recommended by LinkML is `MkDocs <https://www.mkdocs.org/>`_. 
> MkDocs can be used to convert Markdown files/pages into HTML pages. The reason we recommend converting to 
> HTML is so that the pages can be deployed to a static site hosting service like `GitHub Pages <https://pages.github.com/>`_. Again, 
> if you have used the cookicutter to create your schema, you will find a Makefile in your project folder 
> with shortcuts (Makefile targets) to help you build and deploy your documentation easily.
> 
> Another important detail about the information contained in the technical documentation pages is the fact 
> that it also has automatically generated `Mermaid class diagrams <https://mermaid.js.org/syntax/classDiagram.html>`_ 
> embedded on the class documentation pages. These diagrams summarize the relationships between various classes 
> and slots in your schema.
> 
> Optionally linkml also allows you to exercise more granular control on the layout and content rendered on your documentation pages. 
> This customization is facilitated by the modification of the `base jinja2 templates <https://github.com/linkml/linkml/tree/main/linkml/generators/docgen>`_ 
> that are used to control the layout and content of the documentation pages. There are jinja2 templates for each of the elements 
> in your schema, and you can modify whichever you need to based on your requirements.
> 
> .. image:: ../images/documentation_generation_schematic.png
> 
> *Figure.: schematic diagram explaining the working mechanism of the ``gen-doc`` module*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overview
--------

Automatically generating technical documentation for your LinkML schema is a
key feature of the LinkML framework. The ``linkml`` library includes a generator (invoked
using the ``gen-doc`` command) that can create individual Markdown
pages for each schema element—classes, slots, enumerations, and more.

These documentation pages are a valuable resource for consumers of your schema, offering a 
user-friendly way to explore and understand its structure.

If you use the official `LinkML cookiecutter <https://github.com/linkml/linkml-project-cookiecutter/tree/main>`_, 
it sets up your project with a static site generator framework. While several frameworks are available, LinkML recommends `MkDocs <https://www.mkdocs.org/>`_, 
which converts Markdown files into HTML pages. Publishing as HTML makes it easy to deploy to a static site host like `GitHub Pages <https://pages.github.com/>`_. 
The cookiecutter also provides a ``Makefile`` with targets to help you build and deploy documentation with minimal effort.

The generated class documentation pages also include embedded `Mermaid class diagrams <https://mermaid.js.org/syntax/classDiagram.html>`_, 
which visualize relationships between classes and slots in your schema.

For advanced customization, LinkML allows granular control over the layout and content of documentation pages. 
This is done by modifying the `base Jinja2 templates <https://github.com/linkml/linkml/tree/main/linkml/generators/docgen>`_ 
that define how each type of schema element is rendered.

.. image:: ../images/documentation_generation_schematic.png

*Figure: Schematic diagram showing how the ``gen-doc`` module works.*
```

Reviewer: Your content is totally fine, but ChatGPT 4o and I were able to reduce it from ~ 360 words to ~ 250 and simplify the sentence structure, if that interests you.
